{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs24 \cf0 GRGAEGFEGESFess: Croatia\'92s eventually-successful application for EU membership, for example, was a ten-year affair.\
HELLO WORLDit would vehemently oppose an independent Catalonia\'92s attempts to re-join the EU. Indeed, Rajoy won\'92t even grant Catalonia a referendum on secession. As\'a0Mas lamented in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/oct/05/catalan-people-spanish-government-catalonia-independence-election-madrid"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 an article}} in 
\i the Guardian
\i0  earlier this month, \'91Our hands are extended, yet the fist in Madrid is never unclenched\'92.\
But the fist might not remain clenched\'a0forever. Many Spaniards, especially those in their 20s and 30s, see December\'92s\'a0election as a chance to usher in a new political era for Spain. In the minds of many of the electorate, the Popular Party and PSOE, after forty years of sharing power, are\'a0now names synonymous with deep-rooted corruption and an \'91old\'92 Spain that should be left firmly behind. Indeed, it was Catalonia who showed its rejection of this \'91old\'92, Franco-era Spain by symbolically banning the bullfight in 2011.\
The joint dominance of the Popular Party and PSOE in post-Franco Spain has created a real desire for change\'a0on the political landscape, one from which pro-independence parties in Catalonia may benefit. The new Spanish government, whatever its composition, might still be unconvinced of the benefits of Catalonian secession, and keeping an independent Catalonia in\'a0the EU would be complicated in any scenario. But, after 20 December\'92s historic general election, the politicians on the other side of the negotiating table from Catalan secessionists may be open, at least, to a dialogue about its possibility. The \'91clenched\'a0first\'92 of Madrid may not remain so for much longer.\
}